♪ [music] ♪
Let's get this Add page working. Right now
if you click on if you get 404,
and that's because we don't have a route
set up for it. So let's open up our
index.js inside of our routes folder, and
let's just duplicate this route and say
('/add', and we want to have
storeController.addStore);. Now we'll go
over to our storeController file, and
we're going to add a new one.
So it's going to be exports.addStore =, we
have our req and we have our res.
And from that, let's just say res.send,
response.send('It works');.
Let's just check that that sucker works.
And now when you refresh,
you should see "It works" show up.
Now we don't actually want to send that.
We want to render out one of our
templates. So we'll say res.render, and
the template that we want to render our,
we're going to call it ('editStore'). And
the reason I'm not calling this
('addStore') is because I want to use the
same template, whether we're adding a new
store or whether we're editing an existing
store. That keeps the number of templates
down. It keeps our code as dry as
possible. What is the data that we need to
pass to this? Well, we need to add the {
title: which is called 'Add Store' });.
So now if we save that we're going to get
an error, because this doesn't exist,
but let's see. There we go, "Failed to
lookup 'editStore. '" So we'll go into our
views directory here. We make a new file,
and we'll call it editStore.pug.
And we'll do exactly what we've been doing
for the rest of them.extends layout,
and we'll have our block content.
Some HTML that needs to be displayed onto
the page. So that's what we're going to
do. We're going to open up our views
folder and open up our mixins folder.
There's nothing inside of there right now,
but we're going to create our first
mixins. We're going to create a new file
here. And we're going to call it,
I like to prefix mine with _. However,
that is 100% not necessary.
I just like to do it as a naming
convention. We do that in SAS.
It's nice to sort of keep that convention
going in Pug. So we're going to call it
_storeForm, capital "F," .pug. And we're
going to define what the mixin looks like.
So the way that you define the mixin is
you simply just say mixin.
And you name the mixin that you want, it's
just like a function.
So we'll call it storeForm. And that will
take in a (store, which is going to be for
when we edit it. And it's going to default
into an empty object.
So for now, we don't actually need the
store because we're not editing a store
just yet. We're just adding one. But we're
going to put that there so that if someone
does pass a store, we have the information
for how to use it. Otherwise,
if someone does not pass a store, this is
what this does. It falls back to an empty
object, and this is exactly the same in
ES6 as well. So we see that Pug has
brought a lot of the things over from
JavaScript. And from that,
you can start to just maybe you put a
paragraph, it works. Let's try that.
Now to go back to our editStore, what we
need to do is import the actual mixin that
we need. The way that you import a mixin
is you include mixins/ and then the name
of the mixin, _storeForm. And what that
will do is it will make all of the mixins
that you've defined in this file available
to us as functions that live inside of
this Pug file. So you can have multiple
mixins inside of a file,
but I generally keep it one mixin to one
file. So we've got mixins/_storeForm.
And then to use a mixin you simply use the
+ sign. You have the storeForm.
What that will do, the + will tell Pug
that we are using a mixin and we're
running the function here. So give that a
Save now, refresh. You see it works.
Why? Because the code that is inside of
here will be then used.
And you can also pass it some data like
store. You could say the ({ name: is 'Tim
Hortons'}). And here you could say "It
works!" And we could interpolate the
#. So now it should say, "It
works! Tim Hortons." There we go.
Why? Because we passed in an object, which
was a store. And then it accepts an
object, which we also call store. And then
you can use all the properties on that
object that got passed in. It works just
like a function in JavaScript.
It accepts some parameters, and then we
can then use that parameter and all of the
properties on it. Now we're not going to
use that just yet, but once we get into
editing a store we will use it.
So let's back that up there.
Good. Now let's get rid of that paragraph
tag and get to editing our form.
So the first thing that we need to do is
have a form. And the (action is going to
be "/add" and the method is going to be
"POST." I like to capitalize that.
And this is a little bit weird, but this
is because we're going to be uploading
photos. So we're going to say
enctype="multipart/form-data." And then
finally, you want to give it a class of
"card"), and that's just so that the CSS
that I've written will kick in.
Now inside of that, make sure your...see
how we're indented one level deep right
here? Now we want a label(for="name"), and
then you want to input the type of text,
the name of Name. So let's see if that's
working now. Good. So we have our store
form. We have "Name." This is where we're
going to type in the actual name.
Now let's go back to our model and just
see what other fields that we need,
right? So we need a name. And the name of
your name...that's a poor naming because
now everything is named name. But let's
look at a different one.
Description, let's do that. So we will
have label(for="description").
Say Description. And then we have an
input(type of "text," and the name is
"description"). Now the name that gets
posted, it needs to line up with the name
inside of your schema, right? So it's
going to be a String. Then we'll go down.
We have the description. And then we also
wanted to work with some tags, right?
There's going to be no input for the slug,
because that's going to be auto-generated,
but we do need to be able to let the
person choose from multiple tags.
So how would this work? Well, you could
pull a list of available tags and have
them, or you could have a predefined set
of tags. And that's what we're going to be
doing. We're going to first have an array
of tags, and then we're going to loop over
each of them. So we're going to say -,
that means we're running JavaScript
because we just need to make a quick
variable here before we actually render
any pug.
So the choices is going to be = ['Wifi',
'Open Late', 'Family Friendly',
'Vegatarian', and 'Licensed']. So that's
all of our variables that we have here.
Then we're going to take those variables
and loop over them. So we'll give
ourselves an unordered list of the class
of tags. And then how do you loop in Pug?
Well, you use something called an each. So
you say each choice in choices,
so that's sort of like a dot for each in
JavaScript, but this is the syntax for it.
So if choices is our array, choice is
going to be each individual one.
Then we can go inside of that and just
start writing some more pugs.
So we're going to say class of tag, and
the class of tag__choice.
I'm using some BEM syntax here that my CSS
kicks in. That's nothing special,
this __. That has nothing to do with Pug.
That's just how I like to write my
mark-up. So BEM will kick in, and then for
that we'll have an input with (type of
"checkbox"). Let's see how far that gets
us. So we should have one,
two, three, four, five. We should have
five checkboxes now showing up.
There we go, there's
five empty checkboxes.
The id of that is going to be just choice.
So you notice how there's no quotes around
that. Why? Because choice is a variable.
The value is going to also be choice.
The name is going to be "tags" so the name
in there is really important because that
will line up to the data being sent to our
server. And then below it,
we need to have a label just (for our
choice). And inside of that we can put our
# name.
So we can either do the interpolation,
which is #{} and then the variable.
Or you can use a syntax = choice. Both of
those are going to work.
Here, let me show you. So you see, "Family
Friend," "Open Late." Or I could
interpolate it with the bang {} choice,
and that will do exactly the same thing.
So we'll leave it at this because we did
it the other way last time.
Okay, good. Now we finally need an input
with the type of submit.
So input(type="submit". And value is going
to be "Save. And give it a class of
"button" just so that the CSS will kick in
some nice styles. There we go,
we have a Save, and a Name and a
Description. Now what happens when I fill
this out?
Oh, one last thing. I goofed us up. The
description is only one line.
This description shouldn't be an input, it
should be a textarea.
And there is no type on a textarea,
because it should be multi-line.
There we go, this gives us multi-line. So
if I have a Name, like "Wes." I have a
Description, "its good." And then I add a
couple tags and click on Save.
Notice how we're on /add. Click Save. What
happens? We go back to /add,
but we get a 404. And why is that? Well,
if you look at a form tag,
the form tag always includes two important
pieces of information about what should
happen when somebody
clicks on Submit for that form.
So the action tells the browser where to
send the data, and the method tells the
browser how to send the data. So the two
different ones in HTML,
there's a couple other ones you can use in
JavaScript, but these are two simple ones
in HTML, are POST and GET. POST will send
the data sort of invisibly,
and it will make it invisible. And that's
great for when you don't want the data to
show up in the URL if it's a data like a
username and a password.
You don't want that to show up in a URL.
The other one is called GET,
and that will actually put the data in the
URL. And that's helpful for if you want to
make a bookmarkable URL.
So maybe if I refresh this...actually, if
you refresh a page that has been posted
to, the browser says, "Oh, do you actually
want to resubmit that form that you just
did?" And you push Continue. You still get
a 404 page. I refresh.
See how you can't get back to our form
page? That's because we're in a post value
right now. But if you actually click on
Add once more, it will bring us back to
that Add Store URL.
But if I say "wes, cool." And then I take
Open Late, and Wifi,
and Licensed, and Save it, you'll see in
the URL, because we set it to GET,
the URL is now showing us the Name was
"Wes", the Description was "cool," and the
tags, "Wifi, Open Late," and "Licensed."
So that's what GET does,
and that would be great if I was searching
something I wanted to bookmark it,
send it to a friend. But in our case, we
don't want that. We want POST,
so we want all that data
to be sent invisibly.
So now let's take that off the URL, and
submit it, "wes, testing," click a couple.
We're going to get a 404. Why is that?
Well, if we go back to our routes,
right here, you'll see that we say
router.get('/add', and that means when you
visit a page by default, you're getting
that page. But you can also post to a
page, and that's generally when a form is
submitted or you are posting to that with
a library like jQuery, or Axios, or
whatever library you're using.
So what we actually want to do is say
router.post('/add'). So when someone posts
to the add, we want to use
storeController. And the method that we're
going to create is called createStore, so
storeController.createStore);.
Now we'll go back to our Controller here
and we'll add a new one,
exports.createStore = (req, res) =>. And
let's do res.json. Now how do we get the
data? Let's just do this, we submit the
form, and let's immediately send the data
back to the user in JSON.
So we'll say res.json.
And now if we take (req.body);,
(req.body); is going to contain all of the
information about what got sent to it. Oh,
you see this, I forgot an "S." So if I
fill out this form, "WEs, Cool," and click
a couple tags, click Save.
Click on Save. Oh, we actually don't get
any data. (req.body); should be showing us
all of the data that we posted to it. So
let's take a quick look at our form here,
and I think what the problem is, is this
enctype="multipart/form-data".
This is a special encoding type that you
need when you upload images.
And we need to handle that properly when
we start uploading images.
So we actually don't need this just yet.
We're going to come back and modify the
form once we start uploading our image and
take care of that.
So try to take that out, and let's see. If
we go back to our form here,
click on Add again. Make sure you actually
do a page refresh because we want to make
sure that that HTML is gone, it's not a
cache version. So "Wes,
cool." Let's try a couple things, click
Save. There we go. Okay,
good. So our storeController is now just
sending back (req.body);,
and we see this entire object.
Alternatively, if you're ever working and
you want to see what's being posted, you
can just quickly console.log (req.body);.
And now when you go back here, you can
always hit Cmd+K to just clear out your
terminal and give it a refresh.
You want to Continue.
You'll see that you can also console.log
all of the data that is being posted,
so name, description, and tags, all of the
data is now available to us.
Okay, cool, but what's the point of just
taking the data and sending them back to
the person? No, what we actually want to
do is to save that data (req.body),
back to the database. And in the next
video we're going to look at how to use
Mongoose, which is our library to
interface with MongoDB, as well as a new
thing in JavaScript called "async await"
to actually save the data to our database
so it persists.
♪ [music] ♪